# Higher or Lower Number Guessing Game

Higher or Lower is a Python terminal game. It runs in the Code Institute's mock terminal on Heroku. 



It is a number guessing game where users try to guess a specific number correctly. This is a random number generated by the computer between 1 and 100. The user has 5 attempts to guess the correct number. If they guess the correct number in 5 guesses then they win the game, otherwise they lose. After each guess, the number of remaining guesses will be displayed on the screen. The game gives hints to the user after each guess, where they advise the user if the number they are trying to guess is higher or lower than the last number they guessed. 



The main function of this game is to provide the user with a simple number guessing game. It allows the user to have fun and try to guess a random number generated by the computer. 

## How to play the Game




View the live project here: (**INSERT LIVE LINK HERE**)



(**INSERT SCREEN SHOT HERE FROM AM I RESPONSIVE **)



## User Stories


### As a user I would like to see a simple explanation of the game and how to play. 

Before beginning the game a welcome message is displayed. This provides details of how to play the game to the user. The user is advised that they must choose a number between 1 and 100 and try to guess a mystery/ target number. The user is also informed that they will have 5 chances to guess the correct number. 

Once the game has started, the user is prompted to provide the required information. They are asked "Please choose a number between 1 and 100". This signals to the user where to enter their guess and re- affirms that their guess must be a number between 1 and 100. 

When the game is over the user receives a message. The messaging is user-focused in that it congratulates the user on winning, and also provides a sympathetic message if the user loses the game. 



### As a user I would like to enter my name at the welcome screen

- Below the initial welcome message the user is asked to enter their name. Once the user enters their name, a messasge is displayed in the terminal welcoming that person to the game using the name/ username that they have entered. The users name is also used in the congratuliations message if they win the game or the message that displays when they lose the game. This adds a more personal touch to the game for the user. 


- The user can enter a name or username of their choice. The name is not limited to strings to allow users to enter a name of their choosing which may contain words, numbers or a combination of both.


### As a user I would like participate in the game and to enter a guess 

- The user can participate in the game and make a guess by following the prompts on screen. They are asked guess a number between 1 and 100. Once the user has made their guess, this will be checked to see if it matches the target number. 


- If the user has guessed the correct number a congratulations message will display on screen. This message will include the player name and advise them that they have chosen the correct number and have won the game.


- If the user has not guessed correctly they will be prompted to enter another guess. If the correct number is not guessed this will continue until the user has used up all 5 guesses. 



### As a user I would like to see my remaining guesses clearly displayed. 

- When a user enters a guess, the guess is evaluated. In the beginning of the game, the user starts with 5 guesses/ chances. After each incorrect guess, the number of remaining guesses is reduced by one. These are displayed on the screen and represented by the letter 'X'. Text above reads "Remaining Guesses" letting the user know that each 'X' represents a remaining guess for the user. 


### As a user I would like to see if my guess is correct or not

- After a guess is made by the user and the guess has been evaluated text is displayed in the terminal. This advises the user if their guess was correct and they won or if it was incorrect. It also gives the user a hint to make it easier to narrow down where the correct answer might be. If the users guess is incorrect they are prompted to make another guess. 

### As a user I would like to see if the correct answer is higher or lower than my guess

- When a user enters their guess a message is displayed to the user stating whether the correct answer is higher or lower than their guess. The numeber the user has chosen is also displayed in the message. This gives the user an indication of the range in which their next guess should be. 

The messages are:
- You chose ..., the correct answer is higher!
- You chose ..., the correct answer is lower. 

### As a user I would like to know when the game is over and what the correct number was

- Once the user has made 5 incorrect guesses the game will end. A GAME OVER message is displayed on screen. A message is displyed to the user, including their name. It also advises the user of what the correct number was. The game over message is "GAME OVER". "You lose {username}. The correct number was {target number}. Better luck next time"

## Existing Features

### Welcome Message and Game Explanation

An initial welcome message is displayed to the user. It says"".

(**ENTER SCREEN SHOT OF THE WELCOME MESSAGE**)


Below the welcome message there is also an explanation of how to play the game. The user must try to guess a computer generated number between 1 and 100. The user has a maximum number of 5 guesses in which to guess the correct answer. 
Welcome message ""
Play game instructions:
""
""
""

(**ENTER SCREEN SHOT OF THE PLAY GAME INSTRUCTIONS**)


### Allow User to enter Username

Below the welcome message a prompt is displayed for the user to enter a username. This username is displayed in a personalised message to the user once a username has been provided. The username may contain letters, numbers or a mixture of both. The player name / username has not been limited to strings to enable the user to enter whatever name they choose as they might wnat to use something other than their name for the game. 
Message displayed once name has been entered: ""

### Python Random Library

- The Python random library is imported and used to generate the target numeber that the user tries to guess

### Accept user input

- The application allows the user to enter a number which will be used as their guess. They can enter a guess up to 5 times. If after 5 guesses they have not chosen the correct number they lose the game. These guesses are then validated. 

- User input is also accepted in the form of a username/ player name that can be entered by the user
 
### Input validation and error checking

**Validation for checking user input is an integer**

- Once a guess is entered by the user it is validated. There are a number of checks to ensure that the correct information has been entered.

- The input is checked to ensure that an integer is chosen. If the user enters a guess that is not an integer this guess is not accepted and an error message will display. This entry will not count towards the users 5 guesses. 
- Error message: ""

Screen shot below of user attempting to enter a number with a decimal point
(**INSERT SCREEN SHOT OF ERROR MESSAGE**)

Screen shot below of user attempting to enter a string
(**INSERT SCREEN SHOT OF ERROR MESSAGE**)

Screen shot below of user attempting to enter a negative number
(**INSERT SCREEN SHOT OF ERROR MESSAGE**)

**Validation to check if the user input is within the specified range**

- The input is also validated to ensure that the user does not enter a number that falls outside the range. The range for this game is between 1 and 100. If the user inputs a number outside of this range, an error message will display. This entry will not count towards the users 5 guesses. 

- Error message: ""

Screen shot below of user attempting to enter a number above the maximum number 100
(**INSERT SCREEN SHOT OF ERROR MESSAGE**)

Screen shot below of user attempting to enter a number below the minimum number 1
(**INSERT SCREEN SHOT OF ERROR MESSAGE**)

**Validation for an empty input**

- If the user presses the enter key without inputting any data, an error message will display. This entry will not count towards the users 5 guesses. 

 Error message: ""

Screen shot below of user making a guess with empty input
(**INSERT SCREEN SHOT OF ERROR MESSAGE**)


### Display Hints for Incorrect Guesses - Higher or Lower

- Once a user has made a guess it will be checked against the target number. If the user guess is lower than the target number, a message will be displayed to advise the user that their guess was too low so that they will know that they should choose a number with a higher value when making their next guess. 

- Message displayed if guess is lower than the target number: ""

Screenshot of message in the terminal when user guess is lower than the target number
(**INSERT SCREEN SHOT OF MESSAGE - TOO low**)

- If the user guess is higher than the target number, a message will be displayed to advise the user that their guess was too high so that they will know that they should choose a number with a lower value when making their next guess.

- Message displayed if guess is higher than the target number: ""

Screenshot of message in the terminal when user guess is higher than the target number
(**INSERT SCREEN SHOT OF MESSAGE - TOO HIGH**)


### Display Remaining Guesses

- In each game the user can make 5 guesses to try to guess the correct number. These are displayed on screen with an 'X'. for example, if there are 3 remaining guesses, 3 x's will be displayed on the screen.  As each guess is taken, the number of remaining guesses will decrease. Text is displayed above advising that the x's re[resent remaining guesses.
(**INSERT SCREEN SHOT OF MESSAGE - REMAINING GUESSES REPRESENTED BY X**)


### Winning/ Losing Message


Once the user inputs a guess, the guess is checked to see if this guess matches the target guess. 

- If the guess is correct a winning message is displayed on the screen. This message advises the user that they have won. It displays the username that was entered by the user at the beginning and confirms what the correct number was. 


Winning Message:""

(**INSERT SCREENSHOT OF WINNING MESSAGE**)

- If the user has not guessed the correct answer after 5 guesses they lose the game. A message is displayed to advise the user that they have lost the game. It displays the username that was entered by the user at the beginning and confirms what the correct number was. 

Losing Message:""

(**INSERT SCREENSHOT OF LOSING MESSAGE**)

### Game Over Message

- If the user has entered 5 incorrect guesses, they lose the game. Once the game has been lost a game over message is displayed. 

Game Over Message: ""

(**INSERT SCREENSHOT OF GAME OVER MESSAGE**)

### Data Maintained in Class Instances

- The game status is maintained within a game status class and by calling the functions within the class (add function names here) the status of the game is maintained and displayed tp the user.








